New topic: anonymity networks (e.g. Tor and I2P) (#563)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _topics/en/anonymity-networks.md

## Required.  Use Markdown formatting.  Only one paragraph.  No links allowed.
## Should be less than 500 characters
excerpt: >
  **Anonymity networks** are systems that allow network communication
  without senders or receivers needing to reveal their IP addresses to
  each other.  The best known of these are Tor and I2P.

---

The use of anonymity networks can go a long way to improving the privacy
of Bitcoin software.  It's particularly beneficial when sending your own
transactions.  This is especially true for lightweight clients that
don't relay transactions for other peers, so any transaction sent from
their IP address can easily be associated with their network identity.

But using an anonymity network can also be a liability in some cases;
for example:

- **Following the best block chain** is a major challenge for full nodes
  and lightweight clients on anonymity networks.  Because anonymity
  networks allow the creation of a large number of false identities,
  systems that solely use them are vulnerable to sybil attacks that can
  become [eclipse attacks][topic eclipse attacks] which feed a different
  block chain to clients and nodes than what the rest of the network is

>   using, possibly resulting in loss of funds.

Reviewer: It might be worth mentioning that connecting to just one honest peer, e.g. with -addnode, is enough to fend off these threats.

Author: (Sorry for the delay responding; finally clearing out my GitHub notifications.)  We do mention that pretty clearly IMO on the https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/eclipse-attacks/ topic, which is linked in this sentence.

---
title: Anonymity networks

## Optional.  Shorter name to use for reference style links e.g., "foo"
## will allow using the link [topic foo][].  Not case sensitive
# shortname: foo

## Optional.  An entry will be added to the topics index for each alias
aliases:

>   - Tor

Reviewer: maybe "onion" as well (in Bitcoin Core, use of "tor" is increasingly being replaced by "onion")

Author: I'm not sure about this given that LN uses "onion" for a bunch of things that aren't Tor related.  It might even be worth having a discussion in `#lightning-dev` about the Tor project's recommendation to call things onions versus LN's use of the same term for a bunch of stuff.  (Obviously both projects are using the term correctly, it's just conflationary.)

Reviewer 2: I agree that linking here from the very broad "onion" word would be confusing for people expecting to read about BOLT 4, unless we included a paragraph that the word onion is overloaded.

  - I2P

## Required.  At least one category to which this topic belongs.  See
## schema for options
categories:
  - Privacy Enhancements

## Optional.  Produces a Markdown link with either "[title][]" or
## "[title](link)"
#primary_sources:
#    - title: Test
#    - title: Example
#      link: https://example.com

## Optional.  Each entry requires "title", "url", and "date".  May also use "feature:
## true" to bold entry
optech_mentions:

>   - title: "Bitcoin Core #21594 updates the `getnodeaddresses` RPC to Tor and I2P"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - title: "Bitcoin Core #21594 adds a network field to the `getnodeaddresses` RPC"
```

    url: /en/newsletters/2021/04/14/#bitcoin-core-21594

  - title: "Bitcoin Core #20197 updates eviction logic to keep long-running onion peers"
    url: /en/newsletters/2021/04/07/#bitcoin-core-20197

>   - title: "Question: how do use I2P with Bitcoin Core?"

Reviewer: s/do/to/

    url: /en/newsletters/2021/03/31/#how-can-i-use-bitcoin-core-with-the-anonymous-network-protocol-i2p

>   - title: "Bitcoin  Core #20685 adds support for the I2P privacy network"

Reviewer: likely not visible but hey
```suggestion
  - title: "Bitcoin Core #20685 adds support for the I2P privacy network"
```

    url: /en/newsletters/2021/03/10/#bitcoin-core-20685

>   - title: "Bitcoin Core GUI #162 more network type information to the GUI"

Reviewer: missing "adds"?
```suggestion
  - title: "Bitcoin Core GUI #162 adds the network type to the GUI Peers window"
```

    url: /en/newsletters/2021/01/06/#bitcoin-core-gui-162

  - title: "Bitcoin Core #19954 completes the BIP155 addr v2 implementation"
    url: /en/newsletters/2020/10/14/#bitcoin-core-19954

  - title:  Bitcoin Core PR Review Club on a proposed implementation of BIP155 addr v2
    url: /en/newsletters/2020/08/12/#bitcoin-core-pr-review-club

  - title: BIP for new address relay message to support Tor v3 onion addresses
    url: /en/newsletters/2019/03/12/#version-2-addr-message-proposed

  - title: Bitcoin Core 0.21.0 released with support for Tor v3 onion addresses
    url: /en/newsletters/2021/01/20/#bitcoin-core-0-21-0

  - title: "Year-in-review: support for Tor v3 onion addresses"
    url: /en/newsletters/2020/12/23/#addrv2

>   - title: "Bitcoin Core #19991 allows independently tracking Tor connections"

Reviewer: It enables bitcoind to know when an inbound peer is a onion one. Before this PR, we used localhost as a heuristic, e.g. in the inbound eviction protection logic.

Reviewer: (Outbound onion peers were always easy to detect thanks to the ".onion" in their address.)

Author: Yeah, I know.  We only have 75 characters to explain it and "Bitcoin Core \#19991 " takes up 20 of those characters, so if you have a better description in 55 characters, I'd love to hear it!  :-)

Reviewer: Ok. Maybe "Bitcoin Core #19991 enables knowing when inbound connections are onion peers" (76 chars)

    url:  /en/newsletters/2020/10/07/#bitcoin-core-19991

  - title: Desktop version of Blockstream Green released with Tor support
    url: /en/newsletters/2020/06/17/#desktop-version-of-blockstream-green-wallet

  - title: Presentation on enhancements in LND 0.10, including better Tor support
    url: /en/newsletters/2020/05/06/#lnd-v0-10

  - title: "BOLTs #751 updates BOLT7 to better handled multi-network node announcements"
    url: /en/newsletters/2020/03/25/#bolts-751

  - title: CKBunker allows specifying spending conditions for a Tor-enabled Coldcard
    url: /en/newsletters/2020/02/19/#ckbunker-using-psbts-for-an-hsm

  - title: "Eclair #1278 allows users to skip using SSL when using an onion service"
    url: /en/newsletters/2020/02/05/#eclair-1278

  - title: "C-Lightning #3155 adds option to use a static onion service address"
    url: /en/newsletters/2019/12/11/#c-lightning-3155

>   - title: "Blockstream Green Tor built-in Tor support for both iOS and Android"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - title: "Blockstream Green built-in Tor support for both iOS and Android"
```

  - title: "BIPs #766 assigns BIP155 to the addr v2 proposal for v3 onion addresses"
    url: /en/newsletters/2019/07/31/#bips-766

  - title: "Bitcoin Core #15651 always binds to the default port when listening on Tor"
    url: /en/newsletters/2019/06/26/#bitcoin-core-15651

  - title: "Eclair #736 adds support for using and becoming an onion service"
    url: /en/newsletters/2019/02/12/#eclair-736

  - title: "LND #1516 adds support for automatically setting up a v3 onion service"
    url: /en/newsletters/2018/09/18/#lnd-1516

## Optional.  Same format as "primary_sources" above
see_also:
  - title: Dandelion
    link: topic dandelion

## Required.  Use Markdown formatting.  Only one paragraph.  No links allowed.
## Should be less than 500 characters
excerpt: >
  **Anonymity networks** are systems that allow network communication
  without senders or receivers needing to reveal their IP addresses to
  each other.  The best known of these are Tor and I2P.

---

The use of anonymity networks can go a long way to improving the privacy
of some Bitcoin software, but it can also be a liability in some cases.
Some examples:

> - **Sending your own transactions** benefits immensely from using an

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what these bullet points are listing. Is it "liabilities" (in which case "sending your own transaction" shouldn't be included). I think they're all good points, but I don't see how they naturally fit into a single list.

  anonymity network.  This is especially true for lightweight clients
  that don't relay transactions for other peers, so any transaction sent
  from their IP address can easily be associated with their network
  identity.

- **Following the best block chain** is a major challenge for full nodes
  and lightweight clients on anonymity networks.  Because anonymity
  networks allow the creation of a large number of false identities,
  systems that solely use them are vulnerable to sybil attacks that can

>   become [eclipse attacks][topic eclipse attacks] which feed a different

Reviewer: s/ which/, which/ or s/which/that/

  block chain to clients and nodes than what the rest of the network is
  using, possibly resulting in loss of funds.

- **Latency** can be an issue for routed contract protocol systems
  designed to be fast, such as LN.  Still, for many end users, it's fine

>   to tradeoff slightly slower speed for much improved privacy.

Reviewer: s/tradeoff/trade/ or s/tradeoff/trade off/
